Add Data warehouses and lakes overview page (#260)
snowplow/documentation: docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/index.md

sidebar_position: 2
---

To store your enriched Snowplow data, you will need to determine which loader to set-up to ensure your enriched data reaches your data warehouse or lake. 

### Selecting a loader for your data warehouse
#### Selecting a loader by destination and cloud provider

The Snowplow pipeline supports loading into several data warehouses in AWS and GCP, and the support varies by cloud provider.

> ##### Data warehouse destinations supported in the Snowplow pipeline for AWS

Author: Ohhhh I forgot about tabs for some reason. 🤦 I like that idea. I'm on it.

| Destination | Loader | Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Redshift | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Snowflake | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Databricks | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Postgres | [Postgres Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/postgres/index.md) | Early release |

##### Data warehouse destinations supported in the Snowplow pipeline for GCP

| Destination | Loader | Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Snowflake | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| BigQuery | [BigQuery Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/bigquery/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Postgres | [Postgres Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/postgres/index.md) | Early release |

> #### Selecting a loader by stream processing technology support

Author: If you have a better term than "stream processing technology" please let me know 🙏

Author: It seemed valuable to me to explain that if you take advantage of the broader support available for Kafka/RabbitMQ/NSQ in the Collector or Enrich, that currently you won't be able to simply configure the loaders to read from those. But admittedly, I don't know how broadly that Kafka/RabbitMQ/NSQ support is utilised. What about replacing the whole "Selecting a loader by stream processing technology support" section with:

### If you are not using Kinesis or Pub/Sub

Other stream processing technologies are supported by the [Stream Collector](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/stream-collector/index.md) and [Enrich](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/enrichment-components/index.md), but if you prefer to use a stream processing technology other than Kinesis or Pub/Sub, currently you will need to define your own process to load your enriched data into your data warehouse.

?

---

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

To store your enriched Snowplow data, you will need to determine which loader to set-up to ensure your enriched data reaches your data warehouse or lake. 

### Selecting a loader for your data warehouse

> #### Selecting a loader by destination and cloud provider

Reviewer: I believe this header might now be redundant

Author: Agreed. Thanks for catching that.

<Tabs groupId="destination">
  <TabItem value="aws" label="AWS" default>

| Destination | Loader | Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Redshift | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Snowflake | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Databricks | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Postgres | [Postgres Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/postgres/index.md) | Early release |

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="gcp" label="GCP">

| Destination | Loader | Status |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Snowflake | [Snowplow RDB Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/rdb/index.md) | Production-ready |
| BigQuery | [BigQuery Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/bigquery/index.md) | Production-ready |
| Postgres | [Postgres Loader](/docs/destinations/warehouses-and-lakes/postgres/index.md) | Early release |

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> #### If you are not using Kinesis or Pub/Sub
> 
> Other stream processing technologies are supported by the [Stream Collector](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/stream-collector/index.md) and [Enrich](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/enrichment-components/index.md), but if you prefer to use a stream processing technology other than Kinesis or Pub/Sub, currently you will need to define your own process to load your enriched data into your data warehouse.

Reviewer: I would make this a note rather than a choice point:

```suggestion
:::note

Our warehouse loaders pick up the data from [Enrich Kinesis](...) on AWS and [Enrich Pubsub](...) on GCP. Both [Stream Collector](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/stream-collector/index.md) and [Enrich](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/enrichment-components/index.md) allow you to use a streaming technology other than Kinesis and Pub/Sub, but if you go that route, you will need to define your own process to load your enriched data into the warehouse.

:::
```

Author: Good idea. Will do.
